
	GIT - the stupid content tracker
	GIT - 愚蠢的内容追踪器

"git" can mean anything, depending on your mood.
"git" 可以表示任何含义，取决于你的心情。

 - random three-letter combination that is pronounceable, and not
   actually used by any common UNIX command.  The fact that it is a
   mispronounciation of "get" may or may not be relevant.
 - 一个随机的、可发音的三字母组合，且没有
   被任何常见 UNIX 命令占用。
	 它碰巧是 "get" 的错误发音，这也许有关，也许无关。

 - stupid. contemptible and despicable. simple. Take your pick from the
   dictionary of slang.
 - 愚蠢的。可鄙的。简单的。从俚语词典里随便挑一个吧。

 - "global information tracker": you're in a good mood, and it actually
   works for you. Angels sing, and a light suddenly fills the room.
 - "全球信息追踪器"：你的心境很好，它对你恰好有用。
   天使在歌唱，一道光芒突然充满整个房间。

 - "goddamn idiotic truckload of sh*t": when it breaks
 - "该死的蠢货一堆狗屎"：当它崩掉的时候。

This is a stupid (but extremely fast) directory content manager.  It
doesn't do a whole lot, but what it _does_ do is track directory
contents efficiently.
这是一个愚蠢（但极其快）的目录内容管理器。
它做不了多少事，但它 _确实_ 能高效地追踪目录内容。

There are two object abstractions: the "object database", and the
"current directory cache".
这里有两个对象抽象："对象数据库"，以及"当前目录缓存"。

	The Object Database (SHA1_FILE_DIRECTORY)
	对象数据库（SHA1_FILE_DIRECTORY）

The object database is literally just a content-addressable collection
of objects.  All objects are named by their content, which is
approximated by the SHA1 hash of the object itself.  Objects may refer
to other objects (by referencing their SHA1 hash), and so you can build
up a hierarchy of objects.
对象数据库(object database)实际上就是一个内容可寻址的对象集合。
所有对象都由其内容来命名，
具体做法是 用对象自身的 SHA1 哈希值来表示。
对象之间可以相互引用（通过引用其他对象的 SHA1 哈希值），因此你可以构建起
对象的层级结构。

There are several kinds of objects in the content-addressable collection
database.  They are all in deflated with zlib, and start off with a tag
of their type, and size information about the data.  The SHA1 hash is
always the hash of the _compressed_ object, not the original one.
这个内容可寻址集合数据库有几种对象类型。
它们都用 zlib 压缩（deflate），并以一个类型标签 和 数据的尺寸信息作为开头。
SHA1 哈希值始终是 _压缩后_ 对象的哈希，而非原始数据的哈希。

In particular, the consistency of an object can always be tested
independently of the contents or the type of the object: all objects can
be validated by verifying that (a) their hashes match the content of the
file and (b) the object successfully inflates to a stream of bytes that
forms a sequence of <ascii tag without space> + <space> + <ascii decimal
size> + <byte\0> + <binary object data>.
特别值得注意的是，对象的完整性\一致性总是可以独立于 对象的内容 或 对象类型进行检验：
所有对象都可以通过验证以下两点来确认：(a) 其哈希值与文件内容匹配；
(b) 对象能够成功解压为如下格式的字节流：
<不含空格的 ASCII 标签> + <空格> + <ASCII 十进制大小> + <字节 \0> + <二进制 对象数据>。

BLOB: A "blob" object is nothing but a binary blob of data, and doesn't
refer to anything else.  There is no signature or any other verification
of the data, so while the object is consistent (it _is_ indexed by its
sha1 hash, so the data itself is certainly correct), it has absolutely
no other attributes.  No name associations, no permissions.  It is
purely a blob of data (ie normally "file contents").
BLOB：一个 "blob" 对象 只能是 一段二进制数据，
它不引用任何其他对象。没有任何签名或其他形式的数据校验，
so while 这个对象是完整的\一致的（它 _确实_ 是通过它的SHA1 哈希来索引的，
所以数据本身肯定正确），
但它绝对没有其他属性。没有文件名关联，没有权限。
它纯粹就是一团数据（即通常所说的"文件内容"）。

TREE: The next hierarchical object type is the "tree" object.  A tree
object is a list of permission/name/blob data, sorted by name.  In other
words the tree object is uniquely determined by the set contents, and so
two separate but identical trees will always share the exact same
object.
TREE：下一层级对象类型是 "tree" 对象。
一个 tree对象 是一个按名称排序的 "权限/名称/blob数据" 列表。
换句话说，tree 对象 由其所包含的集合内容 唯一确定，
因此两个独立但内容完全相同的 tree 将始终共享完全相同的对象。

Again, a "tree" object is just a pure data abstraction: it has no
history, no signatures, no verification of validity, except that the
contents are again protected by the hash itself.  So you can trust the
contents of a tree, the same way you can trust the contents of a blob,
but you don't know where those contents _came_ from.
同样，一个 tree 对象仅仅是一个纯数据抽象：
它 没有历史，没有签名，没有有效性校验，
唯一保证就是其内容再次被它的哈希保护。
因此你可以信任 tree 的内容，就像你可以信任 blob 的内容一样，
但你不知道这些内容 _来自_ 哪里。

Side note on trees: since a "tree" object is a sorted list of
"filename+content", you can create a diff between two trees without
actually having to unpack two trees.  Just ignore all common parts, and
your diff will look right.  In other words, you can effectively (and
efficiently) tell the difference between any two random trees by O(n)
where "n" is the size of the difference, rather than the size of the
tree.
关于 tree 的附注1：由于 一个 tree 对象是一个按"文件名+内容" 排序的列表，
你可以对两个 tree 做 diff 而不需要实际解包两个 tree。
只需忽略所有共同部分，
你的 diff 就会是正确的。换句话说，你可以高效（并快捷）地
以O(n)的复杂度，找出任意两个 tree 之间的差异，
其中 "n" 是差异的大小，而非整个tree 的大小。


Side note 2 on trees: since the name of a "blob" depends entirely and
exclusively on its contents (ie there are no names or permissions
involved), you can see trivial renames or permission changes by noticing
that the blob stayed the same.  However, renames with data changes need
a smarter "diff" implementation.
关于 tree 的附注 2：由于 "blob" 的名字 完全且唯一地 取决于其内容
（即没有名称或权限参与其中），
你可以通过 通过 blob 保持不变来 来发现 简单的重命名 或 权限变更。
但是，伴随数据变化的重命名则需要更聪明的 "diff" 实现。

CHANGESET: The "changeset" object is an object that introduces the
notion of history into the picture.  In contrast to the other objects,
it doesn't just describe the physical state of a tree, it describes how
we got there, and why.
CHANGESET："changeset" 对象是一个 将历史概念引入到这个情景 的对象。
与其他对象不同，
它不仅仅描述一个 tree 的物理状态，
它还描述了我们是如何到达那个状态的，以及为什么。

A "changeset" is defined by the tree-object that it results in, the
parent changesets (zero, one or more) that led up to that point, and a
comment on what happened. Again, a changeset is not trusted per se:
the contents are well-defined and "safe" due to the cryptographically
strong signatures at all levels, but there is no reason to believe that
the tree is "good" or that the merge information makes sense. The
parents do not have to actually have any relationship with the result,
for example.
"changeset" 由以下内容定义：它所产生的 tree 对象、
导致这一状态的父 changeset（零个、一个或多个），
以及关于所发生事情的注释。
同样，changeset 本身并不被信任：
其内容 定义明确 且"安全"，因为在各级都有密码学意义上的强签名保护，
但没有理由相信这个 tree 是"好的"，或 合并信息 是有意义的。
举个例子来说，父提交实际上并不一定与结果有任何关系。

Note on changesets: unlike real SCM's, changesets do not contain rename
information or file mode chane information.  All of that is implicit in
the trees involved (the result tree, and the result trees of the
parents), and describing that makes no sense in this idiotic file
manager.
关于 changeset 的附注：与真正的 SCM 不同，changeset 不包含重命名
信息或文件模式变更信息。
所有这些信息都隐含在所涉及的 tree 之中
（结果 tree，以及各结果 tree的 父提交），
而在这个蠢蛋文件管理器里，描述这些毫无意义。

TRUST: The notion of "trust" is really outside the scope of "git", but
it's worth noting a few things. First off, since everything is hashed
with SHA1, you _can_ trust that an object is intact and has not been
messed with by external sources. So the name of an object uniquely
identifies a known state - just not a state that you may want to trust.
信任：关于"信任"的概念确实超出了 "git" 的范畴，
但是有几件事值得一说。首先，因为一切内容都通过SHA1 进行哈希，
你 _可以_ 信任一个对象是完整且未被外部来源篡改过的。
因此一个对象的名字唯一地标识了一个已知状态 - 只不过不一定是你愿意信任的状态。

Furthermore, since the SHA1 signature of a changeset refers to the
SHA1 signatures of the tree it is associated with and the signatures
of the parent, a single named changeset specifies uniquely a whole
set of history, with full contents. You can't later fake any step of
the way once you have the name of a changeset.
此外，由于一个 changeset 的 SHA1 签名
引用了它所关联的tree 的 SHA1 签名以及其父提交的签名，
只要给出一个 changeset 的名字，就唯一地指定了整套历史及其完整内容。
一旦你有了 changeset 的名字，就无法在事后伪造历史中的任何一步。

So to introduce some real trust in the system, the only thing you need
to do is to digitally sign just _one_ special note, which includes the
name of a top-level changeset.  Your digital signature shows others that
you trust that changeset, and the immutability of the history of
changesets tells others that they can trust the whole history.
因此要想在系统中引入真正的信任，你唯一需要做的
就是数字签名 仅仅 _一个_ 特殊记录，
其中包含一个顶层 changeset 的名字。
你的数字签名向他人表明你信任那个 changeset，
而 changeset 历史的不可变性 则告诉他人，他们可以信任整段历史。

In other words, you can easily validate a whole archive by just sending
out a single email that tells the people the name (SHA1 hash) of the top
changeset, and digitally sign that email using something like GPG/PGP.
换句话说，你可以轻易地验证整个归档，仅仅通过
发送一封电子邮件，告知人们顶层 changeset 的名字（SHA1 哈希值），
并用 GPG/PGP 之类的东西对那封邮件进行数字签名。

In particular, you can also have a separate archive of "trust points" or
tags, which document your (and other peoples) trust.  You may, of
course, archive these "certificates of trust" using "git" itself, but
it's not something "git" does for you.
特别是，你还可以拥有一个独立的 "信任点"或标签 归档，
这个文档你（及他人）的信任。
你当然可以用 "git" 自身来归档这些"信任证书"，
但这不是 "git" 为你做的事。

Another way of saying the same thing: "git" itself only handles content
integrity, the trust has to come from outside.
换种说法："git" 本身只处理内容完整性，信任必须来自外部。

	Current Directory Cache (".dircache/index")
	当前目录缓存（".dircache/index"）

The "current directory cache" is a simple binary file, which contains an
efficient representation of a virtual directory content at some random
time.  It does so by a simple array that associates a set of names,
dates, permissions and content (aka "blob") objects together.  The cache
is always kept ordered by name, and names are unique at any point in
time, but the cache has no long-term meaning, and can be partially
updated at any time.
"当前目录缓存"是一个简单的二进制文件，
内含 某个任意时间的 虚拟目录内容的 高效表示。
它通过一个简单的数组来实现，
该数组将一组名称、日期、权限和内容（即 "blob"）对象关联在一起。
缓存始终按名称排序，并且在任意时间点名称都是唯一的，
但缓存没有长期含义，且可以在任何时候被部分更新。

In particular, the "current directory cache" certainly does not need to
be consistent with the current directory contents, but it has two very
important attributes:
特别地，"当前目录缓存"当然不需要与当前目录内容保持一致，
但它有两个非常重要的属性：

 (a) it can re-generate the full state it caches (not just the directory
     structure: through the "blob" object it can regenerate the data too)
 (a) 它可以重新生成其缓存的完整状态
    （不仅限于目录结构：通过 "blob" 对象，它还能重新生成数据本身）

     As a special case, there is a clear and unambiguous one-way mapping
     from a current directory cache to a "tree object", which can be
     efficiently created from just the current directory cache without
     actually looking at any other data.  So a directory cache at any
     one time uniquely specifies one and only one "tree" object (but
     has additional data to make it easy to match up that tree object
     with what has happened in the directory)
     作为一种特殊情况，存在一个清晰且明确的、从当前目录缓存到"tree 对象"的单向映射，
     该映射可以仅仅从当前目录缓存高效地创建，而无须实际查看任何其他数据。
     因此任意时刻的目录缓存唯一地指定一个且仅一个 "tree" 对象
     （但附带有额外数据，以便轻松地将该 tree 对象与目录中发生的变化对应起来）


and

 (b) it has efficient methods for finding inconsistencies between that
     cached state ("tree object waiting to be instantiated") and the
     current state.
 (b) 它拥有高效的方法来找出 在 缓存状态
    （"等待被实例化的 tree 对象"）与当前状态之间 的不一致

Those are the two ONLY things that the directory cache does.  It's a
cache, and the normal operation is to re-generate it completely from a
known tree object, or update/compare it with a live tree that is being
developed.  If you blow the directory cache away entirely, you haven't
lost any information as long as you have the name of the tree that it
described.
这就是目录缓存所做的仅有两件事。
它是一个缓存，常规操作是 从一个已知的 tree 对象 完整得重新生成它，
或者用它来更新/对比一个正在开发中的活跃 tree。
如果你把目录缓存整个删掉，只要你还有它曾经描述的tree 对象的名称，你就没有丢失任何信息。

(But directory caches can also have real information in them: in
particular, they can have the representation of an intermediate tree
that has not yet been instantiated.  So they do have meaning and usage
outside of caching - in one sense you can think of the current directory
cache as being the "work in progress" towards a tree commit).
（但目录缓存中也可以含有真实信息：
尤其是，它们可以 拥有 尚未被实例化的中间 tree 的表示形式。
所以它们在缓存之外确实有其含义和用途 - 某种意义上你可以把当前目录缓存看作是
一次 "进行中的工作"向 tree 提交）。
